Proofreading-OV-Runtime (#11658)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/OV_Runtime_UG/supported_plugins/GPU.md

  - u1

Selected precision of each primitive depends on the operation precision in IR, quantization primitives, and available hardware capabilities.
The `u1`/`u8`/`i8` data types are used for quantized operations only, i.e., those are not selected automatically for non-quantized operations.

> For more details on how to get a quantized model, refer to the [Model Optimization](@ref openvino_docs_model_optimization_guide).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details on how to get a quantized model, refer to the [Model Optimization guide](@ref openvino_docs_model_optimization_guide).
```

Floating-point precision of a GPU primitive is selected based on operation precision in the OpenVINO IR except [compressed f16 OpenVINO IR form](../../MO_DG/prepare_model/FP16_Compression.md) which is executed in the `f16` precision.

> **NOTE**: Hardware acceleration for `i8`/`u8` precision may be unavailable on some platforms. In such cases, a model is executed in the floating-point precision taken from IR. Hardware support of `u8`/`i8` acceleration can be queried via the `ov::device::capabilities` property.

[Hello Query Device C++ Sample](../../../samples/cpp/hello_query_device/README.md) can be used to print out the supported data types for all detected devices.

## Supported Features

> The GPU plugin supports features listed below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GPU plugin supports the following features:
```

@endsphinxtabset

For more details, see [Multi-device execution page](../multi_device.md).

### Automatic Batching
The GPU plugin is capable of reporting `ov::max_batch_size` and `ov::optimal_batch_size` metrics with respect to the current hardware 
platform and model. Thus, automatic batching is enabled by default when the `ov::optimal_batch_size` is > 1 and the `ov::hint::performance_mode(ov::hint::PerformanceMode::THROUGHPUT)` is set.

> Alternatively, it can be enabled explicitly via the device notion, e.g. `BATCH:GPU`.

Author: > 

```suggestion
Alternatively, it can be enabled explicitly via the device notion, for example `BATCH:GPU`.
```

@endsphinxtabset

For more details, see the [dynamic shapes guide](../ov_dynamic_shapes.md).

### Preprocessing Acceleration
The GPU plugin has the following additional preprocessing options:

> - `ov::intel_gpu::memory_type::surface` and `ov::intel_gpu::memory_type::buffer` values for the `ov::preprocess::InputTensorInfo::set_memory_type()` preprocessing method. These values are intended to be used to provide a hint for the plugin on the type of input Tensors that will be set in runtime to generate proper kernels.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `ov::intel_gpu::memory_type::surface` and `ov::intel_gpu::memory_type::buffer` values for the `ov::preprocess::InputTensorInfo::set_memory_type()` preprocessing method. These values are intended to be used to provide a hint for the plugin on the type of input Tensors that will be set in runtime to generate proper kernels.
```

@endsphinxtabset

With such preprocessing, GPU plugin will expect `ov::intel_gpu::ocl::ClImage2DTensor` (or derived) to be passed for each NV12 plane via `ov::InferRequest::set_tensor()` or `ov::InferRequest::set_tensors()` methods.

> For usage examples, refer to the [RemoteTensor API](./GPU_RemoteTensor_API.md) guide.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For usage examples, refer to the [RemoteTensor API](./GPU_RemoteTensor_API.md).
```

> For more details, see the [preprocessing API guide](../preprocessing_overview.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details, see the [preprocessing API](../preprocessing_overview.md).
```

### Model Caching
Cache for the GPU plugin may be enabled via the common OpenVINO `ov::cache_dir` property. GPU plugin implementation supports only caching of compiled kernels,
so all plugin-specific model transformations are executed on each `ov::Core::compile_model()` call regardless of the `cache_dir` option. 
Still, since kernel compilation is a bottleneck in the model loading process, a significant load time reduction can be achieved with the `ov::cache_dir` property enabled.

> For more details, see the [Model caching overview page](../Model_caching_overview.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details, see the [Model caching overview](../Model_caching_overview.md).
```

### Extensibility

> See the [GPU Extensibility](@ref openvino_docs_Extensibility_UG_GPU) page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information on this subject, see the [GPU Extensibility](@ref openvino_docs_Extensibility_UG_GPU).
```

### GPU Context and Memory Sharing via RemoteTensor API

> See the [RemoteTensor API of GPU Plugin](GPU_RemoteTensor_API.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information on this subject, see the [RemoteTensor API of GPU Plugin](GPU_RemoteTensor_API.md).
```

For usage examples, refer to the [RemoteTensor API](./GPU_RemoteTensor_API.md).

For more details, see the [preprocessing API](../preprocessing_overview.md).

### Model Caching
Cache for the GPU plugin may be enabled via the common OpenVINO `ov::cache_dir` property. GPU plugin implementation supports only caching of compiled kernels,
so all plugin-specific model transformations are executed on each `ov::Core::compile_model()` call regardless of the `cache_dir` option. 
Still, since kernel compilation is a bottleneck in the model loading process, a significant load time reduction can be achieved with the `ov::cache_dir` property enabled.

For more details, see the [Model caching overview](../Model_caching_overview.md).

### Extensibility
For information on this subject, see the [GPU Extensibility](@ref openvino_docs_Extensibility_UG_GPU).

### GPU Context and Memory Sharing via RemoteTensor API
For information on this subject, see the [RemoteTensor API of GPU Plugin](GPU_RemoteTensor_API.md).

## Supported Properties
The plugin supports the properties listed below.

### Read-write properties

> All parameters must be set before calling the `ov::Core::compile_model()` in order to take effect or passed as additional argument to the `ov::Core::compile_model()`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All parameters must be set before calling `ov::Core::compile_model()` in order to take effect or passed as additional argument to `ov::Core::compile_model()`.
```

- ov::intel_gpu::memory_statistics

## Limitations

> In some cases, the GPU plugin may implicitly execute several primitives on CPU using internal implementations, which may lead to the increase of CPU utilization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In some cases, the GPU plugin may implicitly execute several primitives on CPU using internal implementations, which may lead to an increase in CPU utilization.
```

## GPU Performance Checklist: Summary <a name="gpu-checklist"></a>

> Since OpenVINO relies on the OpenCL&trade; kernels for the GPU implementation, many general OpenCL tips apply:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since OpenVINO relies on the OpenCL kernels for the GPU implementation, many general OpenCL tips apply:
```

-	Prefer `FP16` inference precision over `FP32`, as Model Optimizer can generate both variants, and the `FP32` is the default. Also, consider using the [Post-training Optimization Tool](https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/pot_introduction.html).
- Try to group individual infer jobs by using [automatic batching](../automatic_batching.md).
-	Consider [caching](../Model_caching_overview.md) to minimize model load time.

> -	If your application performs inference on the CPU alongside the GPU, or otherwise loads the host heavily, make sure that the OpenCL driver threads do not starve. You can use [CPU configuration options](./CPU.md) to limit the number of inference threads for the CPU plugin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-	If your application performs inference on the CPU alongside the GPU, or otherwise loads the host heavily, make sure that the OpenCL driver threads do not starve. [CPU configuration options](./CPU.md) can be used to limit the number of inference threads for the CPU plugin.
```

> -	Even in the GPU-only scenario, a GPU driver might occupy a CPU core with spin-loop polling for completion. If CPU load is a concern, consider the dedicated `queue_throttle` property mentioned previously. Be wary that this option may increase inference latency, so consider combining with multiple GPU streams or [throughput performance hints](../performance_hints.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-	Even in the GPU-only scenario, a GPU driver might occupy a CPU core with spin-loop polling for completion. If CPU load is a concern, consider the dedicated `queue_throttle` property mentioned previously. Be wary that this option may increase inference latency, so consider combining it with multiple GPU streams or [throughput performance hints](../performance_hints.md).
```

- When operating media inputs, consider [remote tensors API of the GPU Plugin](./GPU_RemoteTensor_API.md).

> ## See Also

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Additional Resources
```

The behavior depends on specific parameters of the operations and hardware configuration.

## GPU Performance Checklist: Summary <a name="gpu-checklist"></a>
Since OpenVINO relies on the OpenCL kernels for the GPU implementation, many general OpenCL tips apply:
-	Prefer `FP16` inference precision over `FP32`, as Model Optimizer can generate both variants, and the `FP32` is the default. Also, consider using the [Post-training Optimization Tool](https://docs.openvino.ai/latest/pot_introduction.html).
- Try to group individual infer jobs by using [automatic batching](../automatic_batching.md).
-	Consider [caching](../Model_caching_overview.md) to minimize model load time.
-	If your application performs inference on the CPU alongside the GPU, or otherwise loads the host heavily, make sure that the OpenCL driver threads do not starve. [CPU configuration options](./CPU.md) can be used to limit the number of inference threads for the CPU plugin.

> -	Even in the GPU-only scenario, a GPU driver might occupy a CPU core with spin-loop polling for completion. If CPU load is a concern, consider the dedicated `queue_throttle` property mentioned previously. Be wary that this option may increase inference latency, so consider combining it with multiple GPU streams or [throughput performance hints](../performance_hints.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-	Even in the GPU-only scenario, a GPU driver might occupy a CPU core with spin-loop polling for completion. If CPU load is a concern, consider the dedicated `queue_throttle` property mentioned previously. Note that this option may increase inference latency, so consider combining it with multiple GPU streams or [throughput performance hints](../performance_hints.md).
```
